---
layout: people
title: Christopher Carothers
tags: rpi
---

<img src="{{site.url}}/images/Carothers-HeadShot-1.jpg" alt="Chris Carothers" width=250px />

Professor Chris Carothers is a faculty member in the Computer Science
Department at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He received the Ph.D.,
M.S., and B.S. from Georgia Institute of Technology in 1997, 1996, and
1991, respectively.  Prior to joining RPI, he was a research scientist
at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Professor Carothers is an NSF
CAREER Award winner as well as Best Paper award winner at the PADS
workshop for 1999, 2003 and 2009.  Since joining Rensselaer, he has
secured about $8 million in research funding from agencies including
the NSF, the U.S. Department of Energy, Army Research Laboratory, Air
Force Research Laboratory, as well as several companies, including
IBM, General Electric, and AT&T. His simulation research involves the
creation of high-fidelity models of extreme-scale wireless and wired
networks and computer systems. These models have executed using nearly
2,000,000 processing cores on the largest leadership class
supercomputers in the world.

Additionally, Professor Carothers serves as the Director for the
Rensselaer Center for Computational Innovations (CCI).  CCI is a
million partnership among Rensselaer and IBM. The center currently
supports a network of more than 850 researchers, faculty, and students
from 50 universities, government laboratories, and companies across a
diverse spectrum of disciplines. Currently, the CCI operates
high-performance computing resources approaching in excess of petaFLOP
in compute power. The flagship supercomputer system is a 1 petaFLOP
IBM Blue Gene/Q with 80 terabytes of memory and 81,920 processing
cores.

See more on [his homepage](http://cs.rpi.edu//~chrisc).
