---
layout: people
title: Professor David M. Nicol
tags: uiuc
---

<img src="{{site.url}}/images/nicol.jpeg" alt="David Nicol" style="width: 250px;"/>

David M. Nicol is the Franklin W. Woeltge Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, where he also serves as the Director of the
Information Trust Institute.  Nicol wrote his Ph.D. thesis on dynamic
load balancing of parallel simulations in 1985, and since then has
made foundational contributions to the theory and practice of parallel
simulation using conservative methods, including the notion of
lookahead extracted automatically from models, pre-sampling of random
number streams to generate lookahead (particularly with continuous
time Markov Chains via uniformization), mathematical proof that under
certain conditions on models a globally synchronous conservative
approach has performance that is with a constant factor of optimal,
and composite synchronization.  A historical accident in 1999 thrust
Nicol into the world of cyber-security, where he’s brought his PDES
toolkit along to study such things as the impact of global scale
malware execution on the Internet, and most recently has been working
on efficient means of embedding emulated execution of software stacks
into virtual time, and integrating those emulations with
discrete-event simulation of networks.  Nicol has a B.A. in
mathematics from Carleton College (1979), an M.S.(1983) and a
Ph.D. (1985) in computer science from the University of Virginia.  He
was elected Fellow of the IEEE and Fellow of the ACM for his
contributions to discrete-event simulation, and is the inaugural
recipient of the ACM SIGSIM Distinguished Contributions award.  He is
co-author of a best-seller textbook on discrete-event simulation,
“Discrete Event Systems Simulation”, and is current a member of the
Executive Board of the Winter Simulation Conference.

